Something feels off, something feels off about the way that we're doing things, and not necessarily
because we're doing things wrong, we aren't, but.
There must be a more optimal way to do these things.
What am I referring to?
Well, you see here we're doing these stylesheets, right?
We're doing these stylesheets, an app and restaurant screen, and we're creating styles based on,
you know, specific outputs that we need.
So we're giving specific elements, a specific style by creating this object.
And you can see here that we're putting padding here and putting 16 here, inflects one here, inflects
one there, flex one everywhere, flex, flex, anyways, whatever.
Trying to get at here is, well, these style sheets that we're creating.
We don't really have any way to create consistency among them, right?
We're basically like we wrote right here, and then we have to write white over there as the background
color and give this a padding of 20 in this of 16 already a bit weird.
We're not having consistent padding everywhere.
Why is this a padding of 20 in this padding of 16, for instance?
And why are my styles all the way down here?
Well, when I should be able to read them as part of the element itself, right.
It feels a bit off.
And not because it's wrong, because a lot of people write apps like this, but again, we're trying
to get at industry standards here and job ready.
And so one thing that's a very big in the industry right now is something called design ops.
Design ops is where design, when you're building a product, is taking into account all of the constraints
and making sure that the constraints are fit.
Picture perfect along the way.
Right.
Padding 16 everywhere, having a color palette, for instance, a color palette for the theme to have
consistent colors and branding.
And so with that comes something we would call a design system.
Now, this is a bigger term and a bigger path than just what we can achieve in this app, because this
is interdepartmental.
This is design, working with development and all of these things that come into play.
But one aspect that enables design ops and design systems is theming theming is one of those things
that we look at in the small scale and we say, well, we need a theme because a theme is just going
to apply consistency along the way.
And that's true.
Now, you can fit that into the bigger picture of all of these other things that I discussed.
And that would be great.
But what we're trying to get at here is consistency.
We want consistency.
And so how do we get consistency?
Because the style she creates stuff.
Well, that doesn't really feel right, does it?
And so in order to do that, what we want to do is we want to go look at something called styled components.
Styled components for react native is.
Basically, the way that we achieve wonderful enhancements of Riak components and this is a standard
as well, and react as react native now s components can be used, react native in the same way that
it's used in react.
And so basically will be moving away from this stylesheet creates impacts and creating components that
have their styling already on it.
So there's the syntax here, right.
Basically will be using styled components to create components that have their styling embedded.
And on top of that, not only that.
It will be able to use a theme object in order to have consistency along all of the styles, so we'll
set up a speccing object that will have all of the spacing, small, medium, large, will have fonts
and font family and will have all of the good stuff and will have a color palette and because of that
will be able to reference the right things along the way and have consistency in our design.
And so the reason for this is because we want to create this system in our code base where styling is
a first class citizen and theming is very, very important.
It's a pillar of our application because when we want to create beautiful apps, first of all, beauty
comes from consistency, equal padding everywhere and all of these things and having the same colors
everywhere that will create that beauty.
OK, so how do we go about doing all of this?
Well, let's get into that.